CONTRIBUTING.adoc, before:


== Contributing

Contributions are more than welcome, especially in the form of Pull Requests.

You may also report any issue you run into, questions, wishes and ideas at https://gitlab.com/chevdor/polkabot/issues

=== Development Guide

These are the steps that we suggest you follow that will allow you to contribute to Polkabot, as well as run your own bot and create your own custom plugins.

==== Fork Polkabot and associated plugins

Click the 'Fork' icon in GitLab to fork the repository

==== Clone each fork you made of Polkabot and associated plugins

The following assumes that you have forked repositories from https://gitlab.com/Polkabot into your own GitLab account 'yourusername' and that you are going to develop in the following directory on your local machine: ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/. Note that there may be more plugins available than those listed below.

```
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/ && git clone https://gitlab.com/yourusername/polkabot && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/ && git clone https://gitlab.com/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-blockstats && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/ && git clone https://gitlab.com/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-blocthday && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/ && git clone https://gitlab.com/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-operator && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/ && git clone https://gitlab.com/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-stallwatcher && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/ && git clone https://gitlab.com/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-reporter
```

==== Change to supported version of Node.js and find out where globally installed NPM modules are installed

Install Node Version Manager and use it to install and switch to a supported version of Node.js (i.e. 10.x)

```
nvm use v10.15.3
```

Find out where globally installed NPM modules are installed since Polkabot will scan that directory
for any Polkabot plugins and load any that it finds there. The following will return the location of the
Node.js binary for the current version being used.

```
which node
```

It may return something like `/home/yourusername/.nvm/versions/node/v10.15.3/bin/node`.
Now we want to create a symlink from where the NPM modules are located that are associated with this
version Node.js, which is in the following 'lib' subdirectory `/home/yourusername/.nvm/versions/node/v10.15.3/lib`.

==== Create symbolic links from each of the cloned Polkabot plugins to where the globally installed NPM modules are located for your current version of Node.js

The following is an example of how you might create the symlinks:

```
ln -s ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-blockstats/ ~/.nvm/versions/node/v10.15.3/lib/node_modules && \
ln -s ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-blocthday/ ~/.nvm/versions/node/v10.15.3/lib/node_modules && \
ln -s ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-operator/ ~/.nvm/versions/node/v10.15.3/lib/node_modules && \
ln -s ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-stallwatcher/ ~/.nvm/versions/node/v10.15.3/lib/node_modules && \
ln -s ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-reporter/ ~/.nvm/versions/node/v10.15.3/lib/node_modules
```

==== Build each of the Polkabot plugins

Build all the Polkabot plugins easily with a single command similar to that shown below.
A mirror reflection each of the built plugins will be available for Polkabot's plugin scanner to find them
earlier we created symbolic links between each of the cloned Polkabot plugin repositories
and the globally installed NPM module directory your current Node.js version.

```
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-blockstats/ && yarn && yarn run build && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-blocthday/ && yarn && yarn run build && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-operator/ && yarn && yarn run build && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-stallwatcher/ && yarn && yarn run build && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-reporter/ && yarn && yarn run build
```

==== Create a new Room for the Bot to make announcements and listen for public user input, and create a Bot and a Bot Master

In Matrix Riot, create a new Room, then change the settings so you can find the room (i.e. enable 'Publish this room to the public in matrix.org's room directory?').

In the settings for the Room, the Advanced section shows the Internal room ID (i.e. !AbCdEfGhIjKlMnPqRS:matrix.org). You will add this to your .env file in a subsequent step.

In order test Polkabot with your two users, you may wish to run one instance of the Matrix Riot Desktop application, and login to that with your existing Matrix Riot user id. Then in a subsequent step make this user id the Bot Master in your .env file. Then create a second user using Matrix Riot's Browser application, by going to the address of the room id (i.e. https://riot.im/app/#/room/!AbCdEfGhIjKlMnPqRS:matrix.org). Then in a subsequent step make this user id the Bot in your .env file.

==== Add a .env file with your credentials

The .env file is for you to store credentials, and since the file is included in the .gitignore
file, it will not be added to GitLab.

Replace `!AbCdEfGhIjKlMnPqRS` with the Matrix Riot chat room id where you want the Bot to make announcements
for certain plugins that you include and configure.

Replace `MATRIX_LOGIN_USER_ID` and `MATRIX_LOGIN_USER_ID` with your Matrix Riot login user id and its associated password.

Replace `MATRIX_BOT_MASTER_USER_ID` with the Matrix Riot user id of your Bot Master (the user that is
able to send direct messages to the Bot requesting them to perform certain actions such as make an
annoucement to the Matrix Riot room id that you specified)
Replace `MATRIX_BOT_USER_ID` with your Bot's user id.

```
POLKADOT_NODE_NAME=anything
POLKADOT_WS_HOST=ws://127.0.0.1:9944
MATRIX_BASE_URL=https://matrix.org
MATRIX_ROOM_ID=!AbCdEfGhIjKlMnPqRS:matrix.org
MATRIX_LOGIN_USER_ID=@yourusername:matrix.org
MATRIX_LOGIN_USER_PASSWORD=yourpassword
MATRIX_BOT_MASTER_USER_ID=@yourusername:matrix.org
MATRIX_BOT_USER_ID=@botusername:matrix.org
MATRIX_TOKEN=
```

==== Run Polkadot / Substrate

Download and install Substrate:

```
curl https://getsubstrate.io -sSf | bash
```

Run Substrate in a seperate Terminal window

```
substrate --dev
```

Reference: https://docs.substrate.dev/

==== Run Polkabot

```
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot && \
yarn && yarn start
```

==== View the logs and identify any errors

If you encounter any errors then please create an issue in the respective GitLab repo of the 'Polkabot' username (i.e. click 'New Issue' at https://gitlab.com/Polkabot/polkabot/issues).

==== Try using the Bot

===== Polkabot Operator plugin

Write a direct message from your Bot Master to your Bot `!say hello`, and the Bot will announce the message `hello` in the room id that you specified in the .env file.

Any user may write `!status` and the Bot will respond with the Polkadot / Substrate node network status.

===== Polkabot StallWatcher plugin

Write a direct message from your Bot Master to your Bot `!sw duration <FREQUENCY_IN_BLOCKS>`, and the Bot's configuration settings will change the threshold upon which it makes annoucements in the room id that you specified in the .env file (from the default specified in that plugin repositories config.js file).

Commit message:

docs: Add sample .env-sample file and update contributing guide

CONTRIBUTING.adoc, after:


== Contributing

Contributions are more than welcome, especially in the form of Pull Requests.

You may also report any issue you run into, questions, wishes and ideas at https://gitlab.com/chevdor/polkabot/issues

=== Development Guide

These are the steps that we suggest you follow that will allow you to contribute to Polkabot, as well as run your own bot and create your own custom plugins.

==== Fork Polkabot and associated plugins

Click the 'Fork' icon in GitLab to fork the repository

==== Clone each fork you made of Polkabot and associated plugins

The following assumes that you have forked repositories from https://gitlab.com/Polkabot into your own GitLab account 'yourusername' and that you are going to develop in the following directory on your local machine: ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/. Note that there may be more plugins available than those listed below.

```
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/ && git clone https://gitlab.com/yourusername/polkabot && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/ && git clone https://gitlab.com/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-blockstats && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/ && git clone https://gitlab.com/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-blocthday && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/ && git clone https://gitlab.com/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-operator && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/ && git clone https://gitlab.com/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-stallwatcher && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/ && git clone https://gitlab.com/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-reporter
```

==== Change to supported version of Node.js and find out where globally installed NPM modules are installed

Install Node Version Manager and use it to install and switch to a supported version of Node.js (i.e. 10.x)

```
nvm use v10.15.3
```

Find out where globally installed NPM modules are installed since Polkabot will scan that directory
for any Polkabot plugins and load any that it finds there. The following will return the location of the
Node.js binary for the current version being used.

```
which node
```

It may return something like `/home/yourusername/.nvm/versions/node/v10.15.3/bin/node`.
Now we want to create a symlink from where the NPM modules are located that are associated with this
version Node.js, which is in the following 'lib' subdirectory `/home/yourusername/.nvm/versions/node/v10.15.3/lib`.

==== Create symbolic links from each of the cloned Polkabot plugins to where the globally installed NPM modules are located for your current version of Node.js

The following is an example of how you might create the symlinks:

```
ln -s ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-blockstats/ ~/.nvm/versions/node/v10.15.3/lib/node_modules && \
ln -s ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-blocthday/ ~/.nvm/versions/node/v10.15.3/lib/node_modules && \
ln -s ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-operator/ ~/.nvm/versions/node/v10.15.3/lib/node_modules && \
ln -s ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-stallwatcher/ ~/.nvm/versions/node/v10.15.3/lib/node_modules && \
ln -s ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-reporter/ ~/.nvm/versions/node/v10.15.3/lib/node_modules
```

==== Build each of the Polkabot plugins

Build all the Polkabot plugins easily with a single command similar to that shown below.
A mirror reflection each of the built plugins will be available for Polkabot's plugin scanner to find them
earlier we created symbolic links between each of the cloned Polkabot plugin repositories
and the globally installed NPM module directory your current Node.js version.

```
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-blockstats/ && yarn && yarn run build && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-blocthday/ && yarn && yarn run build && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-operator/ && yarn && yarn run build && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-stallwatcher/ && yarn && yarn run build && \
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot-plugin-reporter/ && yarn && yarn run build
```

==== Create a new Room for the Bot to make announcements and listen for public user input, and create a Bot and a Bot Master

In Matrix Riot, create a new Room, then change the settings so you can find the room (i.e. enable 'Publish this room to the public in matrix.org's room directory?').

In the settings for the Room, the Advanced section shows the Internal room ID (i.e. !AbCdEfGhIjKlMnPqRS:matrix.org). You will add this to your .env file in a subsequent step.

In order test Polkabot with your two users, you may wish to run one instance of the Matrix Riot Desktop application, and login to that with your existing Matrix Riot user id. Then in a subsequent step make this user id the Bot Master in your .env file. Then create a second user using Matrix Riot's Browser application, by going to the address of the room id (i.e. https://riot.im/app/#/room/!AbCdEfGhIjKlMnPqRS:matrix.org). Then in a subsequent step make this user id the Bot in your .env file.

==== Add a .env file with your credentials

The .env file is for you to store credentials, and since the file is included in the .gitignore
file, it will not be added to GitLab.

Rename the sample .env-config to .env and modify it as follows.

Replace `!AbCdEfGhIjKlMnPqRS` with the Matrix Riot chat room id where you want the Bot to make announcements
for certain plugins that you include and configure.

Replace `MATRIX_LOGIN_USER_ID` and `MATRIX_LOGIN_USER_ID` with your Matrix Riot login user id and its associated password.

Replace `MATRIX_BOT_MASTER_USER_ID` with the Matrix Riot user id of your Bot Master (the user that is
able to send direct messages to the Bot requesting them to perform certain actions such as make an
annoucement to the Matrix Riot room id that you specified)
Replace `MATRIX_BOT_USER_ID` with your Bot's user id.

Note that Polkabot will only try to login your user if you are using a custom Matrix base url (i.e. not matrix.org).

```
POLKADOT_NODE_NAME=anything
POLKADOT_WS_HOST=ws://127.0.0.1:9944
MATRIX_BASE_URL=https://matrix.org
MATRIX_ROOM_ID=!AbCdEfGhIjKlMnPqRS:matrix.org
MATRIX_LOGIN_USER_ID=@yourusername:matrix.org
MATRIX_LOGIN_USER_PASSWORD=yourpassword
MATRIX_BOT_MASTER_USER_ID=@yourusername:matrix.org
MATRIX_BOT_USER_ID=@botusername:matrix.org
MATRIX_TOKEN=
```

==== Run Polkadot / Substrate

Download and install Substrate:

```
curl https://getsubstrate.io -sSf | bash
```

Run Substrate in a seperate Terminal window

```
substrate --dev
```

Reference: https://docs.substrate.dev/

==== Run Polkabot

```
cd ~/code/gitlab/yourusername/polkabot && \
yarn && yarn start
```

==== View the logs and identify any errors

If you encounter any errors then please create an issue in the respective GitLab repo of the 'Polkabot' username (i.e. click 'New Issue' at https://gitlab.com/Polkabot/polkabot/issues).

==== Try using the Bot

===== Polkabot Operator plugin

Write a direct message from your Bot Master to your Bot `!say hello`, and the Bot will announce the message `hello` in the room id that you specified in the .env file.

Any user may write `!status` and the Bot will respond with the Polkadot / Substrate node network status.

===== Polkabot StallWatcher plugin

Write a direct message from your Bot Master to your Bot `!sw duration <FREQUENCY_IN_BLOCKS>`, and the Bot's configuration settings will change the threshold upon which it makes annoucements in the room id that you specified in the .env file (from the default specified in that plugin repositories config.js file).
